# I dug up a cast iron drain and wrote 3600 lines of code this week

One got me literally covered in dirt, the other figuratively.
Not sure which I'm more proud of but I'm pretty sure most people care about neither. But hey, I could be wrong.
I'm building a product that keeps LLM from shitting up your code base.
I'm digging up my drain so I don't get shit all over my basement.
In the app, I got a project setup wizard done. My product is kinda thick and dry, like an old book, so you gotta set some things up. 
That's non trivial, and as terrible as I am at marketing, I can't lose the few leads I get because of signup friction.
So I wrote the backend logic for users to connect their github, then set up the repo CodeMySpec style. It's not bad, but I gotta get a frontend on it.
I'm also working through parallel session management, which is a bitch and a half. I was previously going to use background processes to manage claude code/claude sdk instances, but I realized if I went that path I'd have to create UI around it.
 On the other hand, if I just open parallel sessions in the terminal, and run them in full auto mode, it'll get the job done, be easier to surface notifications to users, and save me a lot of work.
Parallel sessions are a HUGE deal for the product because once they work I'll be able to ship large components and features much faster with the magic of claude code.
I also met u/trout_dawg, who is rad. He's working on https://www.vibebible.org/, which is an amazing mvp. He is helping me redesign my whole app, and doing a bang up job, so for anyone (no one) who's watching my site get ready for a serious UI upgrade because mine's just basically Phoenix defaults (don't tell my 
customers (oh I don't have any, tell whoever you want)). 