# Phoenix.ConnTest

Conveniences for testing Phoenix endpoints and connection related helpers.

You likely want to use this module or make it part of your `ExUnit.CaseTemplate`.
Once used, this module automatically imports all functions defined here as
well as the functions in `Plug.Conn`.

## Endpoint testing

`Phoenix.ConnTest` typically works against endpoints. That's the preferred way
to test anything that your router dispatches to:

    @endpoint MyAppWeb.Endpoint

    test "says welcome on the home page" do
      conn = get(build_conn(), "/")
      assert conn.resp_body =~ "Welcome!"
    end

    test "logs in" do
      conn = post(build_conn(), "/login", [username: "john", password: "doe"])
      assert conn.resp_body =~ "Logged in!"
    end

The `@endpoint` module attribute contains the endpoint under testing,
most commonly your application endpoint itself. If you are using the
MyApp.ConnCase generated by Phoenix, it is automatically set for you.

As in your router and controllers, the connection is the main abstraction
in testing. `build_conn()` returns a new connection and functions in this
module can be used to manipulate the connection before dispatching
to the endpoint.

For example, one could set the accepts header for json requests as
follows:

    build_conn()
    |> put_req_header("accept", "application/json")
    |> get("/")

You can also create your own helpers, such as `json_conn()` that uses
`build_conn/0` and `put_req_header/3`, so you avoid repeating the connection
setup throughout your tests.

## Controller testing

The functions in this module can also be used for controller testing.
While endpoint testing is preferred over controller testing, especially
since the controller in Phoenix plays an integration role between your
domain and your views, unit testing controllers may be helpful in some
situations.

For such cases, you need to set the `@endpoint` attribute to your controller
and pass an atom representing the action to dispatch:

    @endpoint MyAppWeb.HomeController

    test "says welcome on the home page" do
      conn = get(build_conn(), :index)
      assert conn.resp_body =~ "Welcome!"
    end

Keep in mind that, once the `@endpoint` variable is set, all tests after
setting it will be affected.

## Views testing

Under other circumstances, you may be testing a view or another layer that
requires a connection for processing. For such cases, a connection can be
created using the `build_conn/3` helper:

    MyApp.UserView.render("hello.html", conn: build_conn(:get, "/"))

While `build_conn/0` returns a connection with no request information to it,
`build_conn/3` returns a connection with the given request information already
filled in.

## Recycling

Browsers implement a storage by using cookies. When a cookie is set in the
response, the browser stores it and sends it in the next request.

To emulate this behaviour, this module provides the idea of recycling.
The `recycle/1` function receives a connection and returns a new connection,
similar to the one returned by `build_conn/0` with all the response cookies
from the previous connection defined as request headers. This is useful when
testing multiple routes that require cookies or session to work.

Keep in mind Phoenix will automatically recycle the connection between
dispatches. This usually works out well most times, but it may discard
information if you are modifying the connection before the next dispatch:

    # No recycling as the connection is fresh
    conn = get(build_conn(), "/")

    # The connection is recycled, creating a new one behind the scenes
    conn = post(conn, "/login")

    # We can also recycle manually in case we want custom headers
    conn =
      conn
      |> recycle()
      |> put_req_header("x-special", "nice")

    # No recycling as we did it explicitly
    conn = delete(conn, "/logout")

Recycling also recycles the "accept" and "authorization" headers,
as well as peer data information.

## assert_error_sent(status_int_or_atom, func)

Asserts an error was wrapped and sent with the given status.

Useful for testing actions that you expect raise an error and have
the response wrapped in an HTTP status, with content usually rendered
by your MyAppWeb.ErrorHTML view.

The function accepts a status either as an integer HTTP status or
atom, such as `500` or `:internal_server_error`. The list of allowed atoms is available
in `Plug.Conn.Status`. If an error is raised, a 3-tuple of the wrapped
response is returned matching the status, headers, and body of the response:

    {500, [{"content-type", "text/html"} | _], "Internal Server Error"}

## Examples

    assert_error_sent :internal_server_error, fn ->
      get(build_conn(), "/broken/route")
    end

    response = assert_error_sent 500, fn ->
      get(build_conn(), "/broken/route")
    end
    assert {500, [_h | _t], "Internal Server Error"} = response

This can also be used to test a route resulted in an error that was translated to a
specific response by the `Plug.Status` protocol, such as `Ecto.NoResultsError`:

    assert_error_sent :not_found, fn ->
      get(build_conn(), "/something-that-raises-no-results-error")
    end

*Note*: for routes that don't raise an error, but instead return a status, you should test the
response directly:

    conn = get(build_conn(), "/users/not-found")
    assert response(conn, 404)

## build_conn()

Creates a connection to be used in upcoming requests.

## build_conn(method, path, params_or_body \\ nil)

Creates a connection to be used in upcoming requests
with a preset method, path and body.

This is useful when a specific connection is required
for testing a plug or a particular function.

## bypass_through(conn)

Calls the Endpoint and Router pipelines.

Useful for unit testing Plugs where Endpoint and/or router pipeline
plugs are required for proper setup.

Note the use of `get("/")` following `bypass_through` in the examples below.
To execute the plug pipelines, you must issue a request against the router.
Most often, you can simply send a GET request against the root path, but you
may also specify a different method or path which your pipelines may operate
against.

## Examples

For example, imagine you are testing an authentication plug in
isolation, but you need to invoke the Endpoint plugs and router
pipelines to set up session and flash related dependencies.
One option is to invoke an existing route that uses the proper
pipelines. You can do so by passing the connection and the
router name to `bypass_through`:

    conn =
      conn
      |> bypass_through(MyAppWeb.Router)
      |> get("/some_url")
      |> MyApp.RequireAuthentication.call([])
    assert conn.halted

You can also specify which pipelines you want to run:

    conn =
      conn
      |> bypass_through(MyAppWeb.Router, [:browser])
      |> get("/")
      |> MyApp.RequireAuthentication.call([])
    assert conn.halted

Alternatively, you could only invoke the Endpoint's plugs:

    conn =
      conn
      |> bypass_through()
      |> get("/")
      |> MyApp.RequireAuthentication.call([])

    assert conn.halted

## bypass_through(conn, router)

Calls the Endpoint and Router pipelines for the current route.

See `bypass_through/1`.

## bypass_through(conn, router, pipelines)

Calls the Endpoint and the given Router pipelines.

See `bypass_through/1`.

## clear_flash(conn)

Clears up the flash storage.

## delete_req_cookie(conn, key)

Deletes a request cookie.

## dispatch(conn, endpoint, method, path_or_action, params_or_body \\ nil)

Dispatches the connection to the given endpoint.

When invoked via `get/3`, `post/3` and friends, the endpoint
is automatically retrieved from the `@endpoint` module
attribute, otherwise it must be given as an argument.

The connection will be configured with the given `method`,
`path_or_action` and `params_or_body`.

If `path_or_action` is a string, it is considered to be the
request path and stored as so in the connection. If an atom,
it is assumed to be an action and the connection is dispatched
to the given action.

## Parameters and body

This function, as well as `get/3`, `post/3` and friends, accepts the
request body or parameters as last argument:

      get(build_conn(), "/", some: "param")
      get(build_conn(), "/", "some=param&url=encoded")

The allowed values are:

  * `nil` - meaning there is no body

  * a binary - containing a request body. For such cases, `:headers`
    must be given as option with a content-type

  * a map or list - containing the parameters which will automatically
    set the content-type to multipart. The map or list may contain
    other lists or maps and all entries will be normalized to string
    keys

  * a struct - unlike other maps, a struct will be passed through as-is
    without normalizing its entries

## ensure_recycled(conn)

Ensures the connection is recycled if it wasn't already.

See `recycle/1` for more information.

## fetch_flash(conn)

Fetches the flash storage.

## get_flash(conn)

Gets the whole flash storage.

## get_flash(conn, key)

Gets the given key from the flash storage.

## html_response(conn, status)

Asserts the given status code, that we have an html response and
returns the response body if one was set or sent.

## Examples

    assert html_response(conn, 200) =~ "<html>"

## init_test_session(conn, session)

Inits a session used exclusively for testing.

## json_response(conn, status)

Asserts the given status code, that we have a json response and
returns the decoded JSON response if one was set or sent.

## Examples

    body = json_response(conn, 200)
    assert "can't be blank" in body["errors"]

## path_params(conn, to)

Returns the matched params of the URL for the `%Plug.Conn{}`'s router.

Useful for extracting path params out of returned URLs, such as those
returned by `Phoenix.LiveViewTest`'s redirected results.

## Examples

    assert {:error, {:redirect, %{to: "/posts/123" = to}}} = live(conn, "/path")
    assert %{id: "123"} = path_params(conn, to)

## put_flash(conn, key, value)

Puts the given value under key in the flash storage.

## put_req_cookie(conn, key, value)

Puts a request cookie.

## recycle(conn, headers \\ ~w(accept accept-language authorization))

Recycles the connection.

Recycling receives a connection and returns a new connection,
containing cookies and relevant information from the given one.

This emulates behaviour performed by browsers where cookies
returned in the response are available in following requests.

By default, only the headers "accept", "accept-language", and
"authorization" are recycled. However, a custom set of headers
can be specified by passing a list of strings representing its
names as the second argument of the function.

Note `recycle/1` is automatically invoked when dispatching
to the endpoint, unless the connection has already been
recycled.

## redirected_params(conn, status \\ 302)

Returns the matched params from the URL the connection was redirected to.

Uses the provided `%Plug.Conn{}`s router matched in the previous request.
Raises if the response's location header is not set or if the response does
not match the redirect status code (defaults to 302).

## Examples

    assert redirected_to(conn) =~ "/posts/123"
    assert %{id: "123"} = redirected_params(conn)
    assert %{id: "123"} = redirected_params(conn, 303)

## redirected_to(conn, status \\ 302)

Returns the location header from the given redirect response.

Raises if the response does not match the redirect status code
(defaults to 302).

## Examples

    assert redirected_to(conn) =~ "/foo/bar"
    assert redirected_to(conn, 301) =~ "/foo/bar"
    assert redirected_to(conn, :moved_permanently) =~ "/foo/bar"

## response(conn, given)

Asserts the given status code and returns the response body
if one was set or sent.

## Examples

    conn = get(build_conn(), "/")
    assert response(conn, 200) =~ "hello world"

## response_content_type(conn, format)

Returns the content type as long as it matches the given format.

## Examples

    # Assert we have an html response with utf-8 charset
    assert response_content_type(conn, :html) =~ "charset=utf-8"

## text_response(conn, status)

Asserts the given status code, that we have a text response and
returns the response body if one was set or sent.

## Examples

    assert text_response(conn, 200) =~ "hello"

## connect(conn, path_or_action, params_or_body \\ nil)

Dispatches to the current endpoint.

See `dispatch/5` for more information.

## delete(conn, path_or_action, params_or_body \\ nil)

Dispatches to the current endpoint.

See `dispatch/5` for more information.

## get(conn, path_or_action, params_or_body \\ nil)

Dispatches to the current endpoint.

See `dispatch/5` for more information.

## head(conn, path_or_action, params_or_body \\ nil)

Dispatches to the current endpoint.

See `dispatch/5` for more information.

## options(conn, path_or_action, params_or_body \\ nil)

Dispatches to the current endpoint.

See `dispatch/5` for more information.

## patch(conn, path_or_action, params_or_body \\ nil)

Dispatches to the current endpoint.

See `dispatch/5` for more information.

## post(conn, path_or_action, params_or_body \\ nil)

Dispatches to the current endpoint.

See `dispatch/5` for more information.

## put(conn, path_or_action, params_or_body \\ nil)

Dispatches to the current endpoint.

See `dispatch/5` for more information.

## trace(conn, path_or_action, params_or_body \\ nil)

Dispatches to the current endpoint.

See `dispatch/5` for more information.