I've always thought that the best way to use LLMs to write software is to strictly define a software development process and then have the LLM go through it. And basically the process is procedural, so it belongs in procedural code, not with an LLM. The approach a lot of people seem to be taking here is to take their very simple idea and then hand it off to an LLM to build a very large specification.

And then take the specification and use that to write code and test or whatever in whatever way that the LLM decides. And I just think that's a terrible mistake because as we've all seen, you write a bad prompt and then you get a bad spec that has, you know, basically if there's a little error in your prompt, there's going to be more error in the spec.

There's going to be more error in the intervening documents. And then there's going to be a lot of error in the code and the test. And those errors are just going to compound over, you know, the layers of LLMs generating slop on top of your original prompt. So the real way to get LLMs to produce high quality output that can be used to build large scale applications is to have a very structured architecture, to have very tight standards, to have human oversight during the planning and design processes.

And that basically makes the generation of the tests fairly trivial because the, you know, the weight of all this specification and traceability and design work basically turns into a really fly ass prompt that leaves the LLM very little wiggle room. And then, you know, the process that's effective for LLMs is very similar to the process that's effective for humans.

You know, you need a spec, which in my case, I just do user stories because that's what drives the behavior of the application. So that's the most critical part of the spec. So that's the most critical part of the application. You're asking it to write implementations based on the tests. And like I said, what we come up with is a set of documentation and designs that makes it possible to completely regenerate the application again, should something go awry or you want to change languages or frameworks or something like that.