# Ecto.Adapter.Schema

Specifies the schema API required from adapters.

## autogenerate/1

Called to autogenerate a value for id/embed_id/binary_id.

Returns the autogenerated value, or nil if it must be
autogenerated inside the storage or raise if not supported.

## delete/5

Deletes a single struct with the given filters.

While `filters` can be any record column, it is expected that
at least the primary key (or any other key that uniquely
identifies an existing record) be given as a filter. Therefore,
in case there is no record matching the given filters,
`{:error, :stale}` is returned.

## insert/6

Inserts a single new struct in the data store.

## Autogenerate

The primary key will be automatically included in `returning` if the
field has type `:id` or `:binary_id` and no value was set by the
developer or none was autogenerated by the adapter.

## insert_all/8

Inserts multiple entries into the data store.

In case an `Ecto.Query` given as any of the field values by the user,
it will be sent to the adapter as a tuple with in the shape of
`{query, params}`.

## update/6

Updates a single struct with the given filters.

While `filters` can be any record column, it is expected that
at least the primary key (or any other key that uniquely
identifies an existing record) be given as a filter. Therefore,
in case there is no record matching the given filters,
`{:error, :stale}` is returned.

## adapter_meta/0

Proxy type to the adapter meta

## schema_meta/0

Ecto.Schema metadata fields