# GitHub.Testing

Support for interacting with the client in a test environment

> #### Note {:.info}
>
> The default method of tracking and mocking API calls uses the process dictionary for storage.
> This means that tests can be run async (calls from one process will not affect calls from
> another). However, it also means that calls from an async task will not be tracked by the test
> process. If mocks and calls need to extend past the test process boundary, use `shared: true`
> on the call to `use GitHub.Testing` or in individual calls to `mock_gh` and `assert_gh_called`.
> See **Async and Sharing** for more information.

## Usage

The testing facility provided by this library has two parts: this module, which provides helpful
functions for generating data and asserting that API calls are made, and
`GitHub.Plugin.TestClient`, which provides a basic mock and support for the test assertions.

In your test environment, you likely want to use the test client plugin as the only item in the
client stack:

    # config/test.exs
    config :oapi_github, stack: [{GitHub.Plugin.TestClient, :request, []}]

The stack can also be configured at runtime by passing the `:stack` option to any operation.

> #### Warning {:.warning}
>
> Stack entries without options, like `{GitHub.Plugin.TestClient, :request}`, look like keyword
> list items. If you have stacks configured in multiple Mix environments that all use this
> 2-tuple format, Elixir will try to merge them as keyword lists. Adding an empty options
> element to any stack item will prevent this behaviour.

Then, in your test file, `use` this module and make use of the available assertions:

    defmodule MyApp.MyTest do
      use ExUnit.Case
      use GitHub.Testing

      test "something" do
        my_function()
        assert_gh_called &GitHub.Repos.get/2
      end
    end

The `use` macro also imports `mock_gh/3` and `generate_gh/2` for use in tests.

## Async and Sharing

By default, this library supports async tests with mocks and call tracking within a single
process. If a test causes or observes other processes to call client functions, then additional
configuration is necessary.

First, multi-process mocking and call tracking is not supported with async tests. Ensure that
`async: true` is **not** present in the call to `use ExUnit.Case` or similar `use` calls (such
as `use MyApp.DataCase`). To enable shared storage of mocks and calls, add `shared: true` to
the call to `use GitHub.Testing` or individual calls to `mock_gh` and `assert_gh_called`:

    defmodule MyApp.MyTest do
      use ExUnit.Case
      use GitHub.Testing, shared: true

      # or...

      test "something" do
        my_async_function()
        assert_gh_called &GitHub.Repos.get/2, shared: true
      end
    end

Mocks and calls will automatically be cleared from the shared storage after each test.

Shared storage uses an ETS table owned by an unsupervised GenServer. To ensure proper management
of this process, you may optionally add `GitHub.Testing.Store.ETS` to your application's
supervisor in test environments.

## generate(schema, key, type)

Generate random data for use in a test response

Data generated by this function will appear as if it were decoded by a plugin (for example
`GitHub.Plugin.TypedDecoder`). Including such a decoder in the stack is not necessary when the
client uses this data.

This function uses randomness to help avoid collisions in tests. It also supports special cases
based on the context of the generated data (the schema and/or key). Examples can be found in the
**Special Cases** section below.

## Special Cases

* `:id` fields with type `:integer` will have unique positive integers rather than the limited
  range of integers returned by a typical `:integer` field.

* `:string` fields with keys that end with `_at` will have ISO 8601 datetime strings from a
  random time within the past day.

* `:string` fields with keys named `:url` or that end with `_url` will have random URL strings.

Additional special cases can be added to make the generated data more typical of real responses.
For example, returning a name-like string for user names, and limiting the allowed characters
for usernames.

> #### Note {:.info}
>
> If you see an opportunity to improve the generated data for a particular field, please include
> the description of the field from
> [GitHub's OpenAPI specification](https://github.com/github/rest-api-description)
> in your pull request.

## Examples

    iex> GitHub.Testing.generate(nil, nil, {GitHub.Repository, :full})
    %GitHub.Repository{...}

    iex> GitHub.Testing.generate(GitHub.Repository, :id, :integer)
    226194162

## generate_gh(schema, type \\ :t, overrides \\ %{})

Generate a struct for use in a test response

The first argument is the module / schema you would like to generate. If there are multiple
types available in the module, then the second argument can distinguish which to use (for
example, `:full` for the type `GitHub.PullRequest.full()`). It is also possible to override
the generated fields with custom data.

This function uses randomness to help avoid collisions in tests. For more information, see
`generate/3`.

## Examples

    iex> GitHub.Testing.generate_gh(GitHub.PullRequest)
    %GitHub.PullRequest{}

    iex> GitHub.Testing.generate_gh(GitHub.User, :private)
    %GitHub.User{}

    iex> GitHub.Testing.generate_gh(GitHub.User, bio: "This is a custom bio")
    %GitHub.User{bio: "This is a custom bio"}

    iex> GitHub.Testing.generate_gh(GitHub.User, :private, bio: "This is a custom bio")
    %GitHub.User{bio: "This is a custom bio"}

## to_gh_params(value)

Transform a library struct into its string-keyed data equivalent

This is useful for testing scenarios when a piece of generated data has not been decoded.

## assert_gh_called(call, opts \\ [])

Assert the number of times an API endpoint was called

The API endpoint can be passed as a function call or using function capture syntax. If passed
as a function call, the arguments must match exactly or use the special value `:_` to match any
value. If passed using function capture syntax, only the arity will be matched. The options
argument is not considered during these checks.

## Examples

    assert_gh_called GitHub.Repos.get("owner", "repo")
    assert_gh_called GitHub.Repos.get("owner", :_), times: 2
    assert_gh_called GitHub.Repos.get(owner, "repo"), min: 2, max: 3
    assert_gh_called &GitHub.Repos.get/2, times: 0

## Options

  * `max`: Non-negative integer representing the maximum number of times a matching call should
    have occurred. If unspecified, there is no upper limit on the acceptable number of calls.
    If none of `times`, `min`, or `max` are specified, the default is to assert at least
    one matching call.

  * `min`: Non-negative integer representing the minimum number of times a matching call should
    have occurred. If unspecified, there is no lower limit on the acceptable number of calls.
    If none of `times`, `min`, or `max` are specified, the default is to assert at least
    one matching call.

  * `times`: Non-negative integer number of times a matching call should have occurred. Passing
    zero will assert the endpoint has not been called. This option has precedence over `min` and
    `max`. If none of `times`, `min`, or `max` are specified, the default is to assert at least
    one matching call.

## mock_gh(call, return_fn, opts \\ [])

Mock a response for an API endpoint

## API Endpoint

The API endpoint can be passed as a function call or using function capture syntax. If passed
as a function call, the arguments must match exactly or use the special value `:_` to match any
value. If passed using function capture syntax, only the arity will be matched. The options
argument is not considered during these checks.

## Return Value

As a return value for a mock, you can set a plain value or pass one of several function forms:

* A zero-arity function will be evaluated a call time. Use this to perform lazy evaluation of
  the mock or encapsulate a generator.

* A function with the same number of arguments as the original client operation (**not**
  including the final `opts` argument) will be called with the same arguments. Use this to
  perform assertions on the arguments or return a different value depending on the call.

* A function with the same number of arguments as the original client operation (including the
  final `opts` argument) will be called with the same arguments and options. Use this to perform
  assertions on the arguments and options or return a different value depending on the call.

In each case, the plain value — or the value returned from the function — should have one of the
following forms:

    {:ok, data}
    {:ok, data, opts}
    {:error, error}
    {:error, error, opts}

Where `data` is the response body and `error` is the error to return, and `opts` modifies the
response. The available options are:

* `code` (integer): Status code to include with the response.

In addition, the following pre-defined error responses are available:

* `{:error, :not_found}` will return an error matching GitHub's standard "Not Found" response.
* `{:error, :rate_limited}` with return an error matching a GitHub API rate limited response.
* `{:error, :unauthorized}` will return an error matching GitHub's unauthorized response.

## Options

  * `cache`: For return values expressed as a function, whether the mock's result should be
    cached for future calls with the same arguments. Set to `false` if you want to guarantee
    that the mock function always runs (for example, if it contains assertions). Defaults to
    `true`.

## Examples

    mock_gh GitHub.Repos.get("owner", "repo"), {:ok, %GitHub.Repository{}}
    mock_gh GitHub.Repos.get("owner", "repo-2"), {:ok, %GitHub.Repository{}, code: 201}
    mock_gh GitHub.Repos.get("friend", "repo"), {:error, :not_found}
    mock_gh GitHub.Repos.get("friend", "repo-2"), {:error, %GitHub.Error{}, code: 403}

    mock_gh &GitHub.Repos.get/2, fn -> {:ok, %GitHub.Repository{}} end

    mock_gh &GitHub.Repos.get/2, fn owner, name ->
      assert String.starts_with?(name, "oapi_")
      {:ok, %GitHub.Repository{owner: owner, name: name}}
    end

    mock_gh &GitHub.Repos.get/2, fn owner, name, opts ->
      assert opts[:auth] == "gho_token"
      {:ok, %GitHub.Repository{owner: owner, name: name}}
    end